---
layout: page
permalink: /blogs/fa11.22/index.html
title: fa11.22
---

# Homework of Functional Analysis

### Date: November 22nd

### Name: Yuze Zhao

## 7.Set $X$ is a Banach space, $x,y\in X$ . If for all continuous linear functionals, $f(x)=f(y)$ , then $x,y$ .

##### proof: 

Known that

$$
f(x)-f(y)=f(x-y)=0.
$$

If $f$ is not zero functional, then $x=y$ .

## 8.Set $X$ is a Banach space, try to prove that for all $x\in X$ , $||x||=\sup\{|f(x)|:f\in X',||f||\leq 1\}$ .

##### proof: 

We shall prove it from both sides.

$$
|f(x)|\leq \sup_{||f||\leq1}||f||\cdot||x||=||x||.
$$

According to lemma 2.1, $\exists f_0\in X'$ , subject to 

$$
\sup_{||f||\leq1}|f(x_0)|\geq |f_0(x_0)|=||x_0||\neq 0.
$$

Then $\|x\|=\sup\{|f(x)|: f\in X' , \|f\|\leq 1\}$ .

## 9.Set $p(x)$ is subbadditive and positively homogeneous in normal linear space $X$ . That is, for all $x,y\in X,\alpha \in \mathbb C$ ,

$$
\begin{gather}
p(x+y)\leq p(x)+p(y)\\
p(\alpha x)=|\alpha|\ p(x)
\end{gather}
$$

## If $p(x)$ is continuous at $x=0$ , then $p(x)$ continues at every point in $X$ .

##### proof:

Method one:

 We know it is continuous at 0., that is for any $\epsilon>0$ , $\exists \ \delta>0$ subject to all point $x\in X$ subject to $||x||<\delta$ ,

$$
p(x)<\epsilon.
$$

Take  $x,y\in X$ which subject to $||x-y||<\delta$ ,  Might as well set $z=x-y,z\in X$ . According to the conclusion above,

$$
p(z)=p(x-y)<\epsilon.
$$

Method tow:

It is bounded at zero, that is $\exists\ \delta>0,\forall\ ||x||\leq \delta$ ,

$$
p(x)\leq 1.
$$

We might set $y=\frac{\delta}{||x||}x$ . Obviously, $||y||=\delta$ . That is to say

$$
p(x)=\frac{||x||}{\delta}\cdot p(y)\leq \frac{1}{\delta}\cdot ||x||.
$$

So $x$ is also bounded, that is to say $x$ continuous at any point in $X$ .

## 10.Set $p(x)$ is a subnorm of linear space, then $\{x:p(x)<r\}\ (r>0)$ is a convexy equilibrium and absorbing.

##### proof:

Take $x,y\ s.t.\ p(x)<r,\ p(y)<r$ ,

$$
p(\alpha x+(1-\alpha)y)\leq |\alpha|\ p(x)+|1-\alpha|\ p(y)\leq r.
$$

So it is convex.

As it is positively homogeneous, 

$$
p(\lambda x)=|\lambda|p(x)<\lambda r<r.
$$

So it is equilibrium and absorbing.

## 11.Prove that the closed hull of a convex set is convex, the closed hull of a equilibrium set is equilibrium, the closed hull of an absorbing set is absorbing.

##### proof:

We set $\{x_n\}^\infty_{n=0},\ \{y_n\}^\infty_{n=0}$ subject to $x_n\to x,\ y_n\to y$ .

$$
\alpha x+(1-\alpha )y=\lim_{n\to\infty}\alpha x_n+(1-\alpha )y_n\in\bar M.
$$

So it is convex.

$$
|\lambda x|=\lim_{n\to\infty}|\lambda x_n|\in\bar M.
$$

So it is equilibrium  and absorbing.

## 12.Compute the general form of bounded linear functional in $L^1[a,b]$ .

##### proof：

Comparing to the relationship between $l^1$ and $l^\infty$ , we suppose that the Dual space of $L^1[a,b]$ should be $L^\infty$ , and it should be reflexive. And the general form should be 

$$
f(x)=\int^b_a\ x(t)\ y(t)\ dt,\quad x(t)\in L^1[a,b],y(t)\in L^\infty[a,b].
$$

$$
||y||=||f||=\inf_{m(E)=0}\sup_{t\in[a,b]\setminus E}y(t).
$$

As the similarity to the proof of theorem 4.4, we can also find it is well defined. So we just need to proof for every $f$ , $y\in L^\infty$ .

We denote a set $E_N$ , s.t.

$$
E_N=\{t\in[a,b]:|y(t)|\leq N\}.
$$

And for all $\epsilon>0$​ we denote A as

$$
E=\{t\in[a,b]:|y(t)|>||f||+\epsilon\ \}
$$

We also denote $y_N(t)=\chi_{E_N\cap E}\cdot sgn\ y(t)$ , then 

$$
\left\| y_N(t) \right\|_1 = \int_a^b \chi_{E_N \cap E}(t)\, sgn\ y(t)\, dt = m(E_N \cap E)
$$

$$
m(E_N\cap E)\ (\ ||f||+\epsilon\ )\leq\int_{E_N\cap A}|y(t)|dt\leq\int^b_ay_N(t)\cdot y(t)dt\leq||f||\ m(E_N\cap E).
$$

When $N\to\infty$ 

$$
m(E)(||f||+\epsilon)\leq m(E)||f||.
$$

That is to say $m(E)=0$ . We can take $\inf_{m(E)=0} E$ , it is also subject to all properties.

$$
||y||=\inf_{m(E)=0}\sup_{t\in[a,b]\setminus E}y(t)\leq ||f||+\epsilon.
$$

Also according to the arbitrary, take $\epsilon \to 0$ 

$$
||y||=||f||=\inf_{m(E)=0}\sup_{t\in[a,b]\setminus E}y(t).
$$

## 12.A Banach space $X$ is reflexive, only if its duel space $X'$ is reflexive.

##### proof:

##### Necessity :

We denote the element of $X$ as $x$ , the element of $X'$ as $X'$ , the element of $X''$ as $X''$ and the element of $X'''$ as $x'''$ .

The typical map $\tau(x)$ , s.t.

$$
\tau(x)=x''
$$

the in fact the element of $x'''$ can be express as 

$$
x'''(x'')=x'''(\tau(x))=x_\Phi(x).
$$

$x_\Phi$ is the elemnet of $X'$ . And it is apparently linear.

$$
|x_\Phi(x)|\leq ||x_\Phi||\cdot||x||=||x'''||\cdot||x||.
$$

So it is bounded. Now we try to find the typical map of $X'''$ , 

$$
x''(x_\Phi)=x_\Phi(\tau^{-1}(x''))=x'''(\tau(\tau^{-1}(x'')))=x'''(x'').
$$

That is to say $x'''(x'')=x''(x_\Phi)$ , and $x_\Phi\in X'$ . So the typical map $\tau'(x_\Phi)=x''' $ .

##### Sufficiency :

If $X$ is  not reflexive, then $\tau(X)$ is the subset of $X''$ .  We denote $F=X''-\tau(X)$ , then according to Hahn-Banach Theorem, exist $x'''\in X''',\ ||x'''||\neq 0$, s.t. $x'''(\tau(x))=x'''(x'')=0$ . $X'$ is reflexive, so exist $\tau'(x_\Phi)=x'''$ 

$$
0=x'''(\tau(X))=x''(x_\Phi')=x_\Phi'(x).
$$

That is to say $||x_\Phi||=0$ . But actually $\tau'$ preserve the norm, so $x'''$ must be also zero. That is comfit to the assumption.

## 20.Set $X,Y$ are both Banach spaces, $T:X\to Y$ is a map preserving norm. Prove that Banach conjugate operator $T'$ is also norm preserving operator form $Y'$ to $X'$ . So $X\cong Y$ , then $X'\cong Y'$ . ' $\cong$ ' means norm-preserving isomorphism.

##### proof:

Firstly, we shall prove that $T'$ is also preserve the norm. Now that $T$ is norm-preserving operator, exist $||x_0||=||y_0||=1$ s.t. $Tx_0=y_0$

$$
|y'(y_0)|=|y'(Tx_0)|=|T'y'(x_0)|\geq||T'y'||\cdot||x_0||\geq||T'y'||.
$$

That is to say $||y'||\geq||T'y||$ .

According to the definition 

$$
\sup_{||y_0||=1}|y'(y_0)|=||y'||.
$$

For all $\epsilon>0$ , exist $||y_0||=1$ s.t.

$$
|y'(y_0)|\geq||y'||-\epsilon.
$$

So similarly

$$
\sup_{||x_0||=1}|Y'y'(x_0)|=||T'y'||=|y'(y_0)|\geq||y'||-\epsilon.
$$

So $||T'y'||=||y||$ . From theorem 5.1, we know $||T||=||T'||=1$ . So $T'$ preserves norm. Then we should prove it is both injective and surjective.

Apparently, the map is injective. For it preserve the norm.

Now that $T$ is an bijection, we should prove for $\forall x',\ \exists\ y',\ s.t.\ T'y'=x'$ . Difine 

$$
y'(y)=x'(x).
$$

$$
|y'(y)|\leq ||x||\cdot||T^{-1}||\cdot||y||.
$$

So $y'$ is bounded by the difinition.

$$
x'(x)=y'(y)=T'y'(x).
$$

Then $Y'y'=x'$ . Q.E.D.

## 21.Set $X,Y$ are both Banach spaces, $T\in L(X,Y)$ . Prove that  if $T$ is finite rank operator, then $T'$ is also finite rank operator.

##### proof:

According to the properties, we can take $\{y_i\}_{i=1}^n$ s.t. $Tx_i=y_i$ . From Hahn-Banach theorem, we can take $\{y'_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , s.t. $y_i'(y_j)=\delta_{ij}$ .

$$
x'(x)=T'y'(x)=y'(Tx)=y'\left(\sum_{i=1}^n\alpha_iy_i\right).
$$

Because $R(T)$ has finite rank. We denote $\alpha_i=y_i'(Tx)$ 

$$
x'(x)=\sum_{i=0}^n\alpha_iy'(y_i)=\sum_{i=0}^ny'(y_i)y_i'(Tx)=\sum_{i=0}^ny'(y_i)x_i'(x).
$$

If $x_i$ is linear relative

$$
x'(x)=\sum_{i=0}^n\alpha_ix_i'(x)=\sum_{i=0}^n\alpha_iy_i'(Tx)=0.
$$

Take $Tx_j=y_j$ . Then $\alpha_j=0$ . So, $x'=span\{x_i\}$ . Q.E.D.

## 22.Prove:  
## $(1) \ \ ^0N(A')=\overline{R(A)}; \quad (2)\overline{R(A')}\subset N(A)^0$.

##### proof:

(1) $^0N(A')=^0((\overline{R(A)})^0)=\overline{R(A)}$ 

(2)Take any one $x'\in \overline{R(A')}$ . Then exist $x\in N(A),\ y'\in Y$ , s.t.

$$
x'(x)=A'y'(x)=y'(Ax)=0
$$

So, $x'=N(A)^0$ . Q.E.D.
