---
layout: page
permalink: /blogs/fa12.4/index.html
title: fa12.4
---

# 泛函分析作业12.4

## 22. Prove that in $l^1$ space, strong convergence equals to weak convergence.

##### proof:

Obviously, weak convergence can be inferred from weak convergence.

So we just need to prove the opposite direction. In fact we only need to prove 
$$
x_n \stackrel{\omega}{\to}x_0\Rightarrow x\stackrel{||\cdot||}{\to}x_0.
$$
If exist  sequences $\{x_n\}^\infty_{n=1}$, it is weakly converging bunt not strongly converging. Might as well set $||x_n||_1=1$.

We can always choose a sequence $x_{N_1}$, s.t. exist $k_1$,
$$
x_{N_1}=\{x_{N_1}^{(1)},x_{N_1}^{(2)},\dots,x_{N_1}^{(3)}\},\\
\sum^{k_1}_{i=1}\ |x_{N_1}^{(i)}|<\frac 1 4.
$$
And exist a sequence $x_{N_2}$, s.t. exist $k_2$
$$
\sum^{k_2}_{i=k_1+1}\ |x_{N_2}^{(i)}|>\frac 2 3,\\
\sum^{k_1}_{i=1}\ |x_{N_2}^{(i)}|<\frac 1 4.
$$
By parity of reasoning, we can take $x_{N_1},x_{N_2},x_{N_3},\dots$
$$
f(x)=\sum_{i=1}^\infty\ x_iy_i.
$$
And for $x_{N_j}$, $y_i=sgn(x_{N_j}^{(i)})$. From the difinition of every sequence 
$$
f(x_{N_j})\geq\sum_{i=k_j}^{k_{j+1}}\ x_{N_j}^{(i)}\cdot sgn(x_{N_j}^{(i)})-\sum_{i=1}^{k_j-1}\ |x_{N_j}^{(i)}|-\sum_{i=k_{j+1}+1}^\infty\ |x_{N_j}^{(i)}|\geq\frac 2 3-(1-\frac 2 3)=\frac 1 3.
$$
But this is conflict to $x_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}x_0$. Q.E.D.

## 24. Find a sequence that weakly but not stongly converges in $L^p\ [a,b]\quad(1<p<\infty)$. 

##### proof:

We sepecifically choose the sequence from $L^2[0,1]$. We denote the sequence as $\{x_n\}_{i=1}^\infty$, $x_n(t)=sin\ n\pi t$.

Then according to Riemann-Lebesgue theorem, we can see the continuous linear function in duel space 
$$
f(x)=\int_0^1sin\ n\pi t\cdot y(t)\ dt\to0\quad(n\to\infty,\ y(t)\in L^q[0,1]).
$$
That is to say $\forall$ continuous linear function in X', there must be 
$$
f(x_n)\to0\Rightarrow x_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}x_0=0.
$$
But by the norm of $L^2[0,1]$, $||x_n||=\frac1 2$.

## 25. Set $\{x_n\}_{n=1}^\infty\in C[a,b] $. Prove that $x_n\stackrel{\omega}{\rightarrow}x\Rightarrow\lim_{n\to\infty}x_n(t)=x(t)$.

We define $f(x)=x(t)$. Obviously it is linear.
$$
|f(x)|=|x(t)|\leq b \|x\|.
$$
So it is well defined.
$$
f(x_n)\to f(x)\Leftrightarrow x_n(t)\to x(t).
$$
Q.E.D.

## 26. Set $X,Y$ are both Banach space, $T\in L(X,Y)$. 

## Prove if $x_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}x$, then $Tx_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}Tx$.

##### proof:

$$
x'(x_n)\to x'(x)\Rightarrow T'y(x_n)\to T'y(x)\Rightarrow y(Tx_n)\to y(Tx)\Rightarrow Tx_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}Tx.
$$

## 27. Set $M$ is subspace of normed linear space $X$ , $\{x_n\}_{i=1}^\infty \subset M$ , $x_n\stackrel{\omega}{\longrightarrow}x_0$, then $x_0\in M$.

##### proof:

According to ==Hahn-Banach Theorem==, if $x_0\notin M$, then exist a $x'$, 
$$
x'(x_n)=0,\quad x'(x_0)=1.
$$
But by the definition of weak convergence, we know
$$
x'(x_n)\to x'(x_0)=0.
$$
This is conflict to $x'(x_0)=1$. Q.E.D.

## 28. Set $X,Y$ are both Banach space, also $X\neq \{0\}$. Prove if $L(X,Y)$ is a Banach space, then $Y$ is Banach space.

##### proof:

Take a Cauchy sequence $\{y_n\}$​, then for all $T\in L(X,Y)$

According to Hahn-Banach Theorem, $\exist\ f,\ \|f\|=1$
$$
|f(x)|=\|x\|.
$$
Take $x_0\in X$. Define $F_n(x)=f(x)y_n$. Obviously, it is linear by f. 
$$
|F_n(x)|=|f(x)y_n|\leq\|f\|\|y_n\|\|x\|.
$$
So it is well defined.
$$
\|(F_n-F_m)\|=\sup_{\|x\|=1}|f(x)(y_n-y_m)|\leq\|f\|\|y_n-y_m\|.
$$
 Now we take $y$, s.t.
$$
y=\frac{F(x_0)}{\|x_0\|}.
$$

$$
\|y_n-y\|=|f(\frac{x_0}{\|x_0\|})y_n-\frac{F(x_0)}{\|x_0\|}|\leq\|(F_n-F)\|\|\frac{x_0}{\|x_0\|}\|=\|F_n-F\|.
$$

## 30. Set $X,Y$ are both Banach space, $T\in L(X,Y)$. If $R(T)=Y$, then exist a comstant number $M$, s.t. for all $y\in Y$

$$
y=Tx,\quad \|x\|\leq M\|y\|.
$$

##### proof:

We try to take a bijective operator by take quotient space $X/N(T)$
$$
\bar T[x]=Tx',\quad x'\in [x].
$$
By this definition, it is linear and bounded.
$$
\|\bar T\|=\inf_{x\in X/N(T)}\frac{\|\bar Tx\|}{\|x\|}=\inf_{x\in X/N(T)}\frac {\|y\|}{\|x\|}=\frac 1 M.
$$